Data Structure: Organization of data needed to solve the problem

array : array is a collection of homogeneous data elements stored in contiguous memory location which features random accessibility at same time and initialization with fixed size of memory.
	    
Merge sort is more efficient and works faster than quick sort in case of larger array size or datasets. whereas Quick sort is more efficient and works faster than merge sort in case of smaller array size or datasets.

*stack : Stacks in Data Structures is a linear type of data structure that follows the LIFO (Last-In-First-Out) principle and allows insertion and deletion operations from one end of the stack data structure, that is top.

Sorting: Arranging the records in some logical order (Alphabetical or numerical order).

Queue : A Queue is defined as a linear data structure that is open at both ends and the operations are performed in First In First Out (FIFO) order.

A Queue is like a line waiting to purchase tickets, where the first person in line is the first person served. (i.e. First come first serve).

Linked list  
Linear collection of self-referential nodes, which are either created via class objects or structure.
Connected by pointer links
Accessed via a pointer to the first node of the list
Link pointer in the last node is set to null to mark the list’s end
Use a linked list instead of an array when
You have an unpredictable number of data elements
You want to insert and delete quickly.

Self-referential structures
Structure that contains a pointer to a structure of the same type
Can be linked together to form useful data structures such as lists, queues, stacks and trees
Terminated with a NULL pointer (0)

There are several conventions for the link to indicate the end of the list.
a null link that points to no node (0 or NULL)
a dummy node that contains no item
a reference back to the first node, making it a circular list.


A circular header Link list is a header list where the last node points back to   the header bode. 
The chains do not indicate the last node and first node of the link list. 
In this case, external pointers provide a frame reference because last node of a circular link list does not contain null pointer.

Benefit of using Header Node
One way to simplify insertion and deletion is never to insert an item before the first or after the last item and never to delete the first node 
You can set a header node at the beginning of the list containing a value smaller than the smallest value in the data set
You can set a trailer node at the end of the list containing a value larger than the largest value in the data set.
These two nodes, header and trailer, serve merely to simplify the insertion and deletion algorithms and are not part of the actual list.  
The actual list is between these two nodes.

